Using Data.gov
Get started by creating a new .txt file in the DataAnalytics/week-01 folder named
Ex3B_ExploringPublicData.txt
Open the .txt file in Notepad or other editor and write in your responses to the below
questions. Copy and paste the full text of each question into the .txt file so that your
answers have clear context:
1. Start by reviewing the data.gov home page. What is this?
-It is a US government’s open portal. It provides access to different datasets from federal agencies. This helps to make government data easy to find and share.

2. Go to Most Viewed Datasets. How many datasets are listed?
-I used this link: Data.gov- Most viewed datasets =402,372 datasets.

3. Find the Topic Category for Human Health. Review the range of data sources
available for this topic. Why do you think these were tagged with the Human Health
category?
-These were tagged because they relate to factors affecting public health trends, these include human and animals, water contaminant levels, animal feeding operations, food access data for population and population at risk in case of emergencies.

4. Go to the Food Price Outlook. Review the catalog page for this dataset. How can you
navigate to additional datasets from the USDA?
- On the Outlook price page, l scrolled down to datasets, I used datasets by organization to navigate all USDA data.
- 
5. Go back to the data.gov home page. This time, click on Datasets by Organization.
- - I found 275,632 datasets by organizations.

6. Try searching for your city, county, and state. What organizations are returned?
- When l searched for Charlotte, Mecklenburg County and North Carolina, the results were 13739 datasets. These included datasets from organizations such as the Department of Education. 

7. Search for USDA and click into the result. Within the USDA datasets, search for 
composition. Notice that the top three results are all datasets concerning nutrition
information. Try searching the USDA page for nutrition. How does that affect your
results?
- - When l searched for food composition, datasets showed are focused on nutrient values and profiles and 881 datasets were shown. When l searched for nutrition on USDA page my results are broadened showing 459 datasets that are related to dietary and nutrient databases (Food Data Control Dietary, WWEIA)

a) One of the tricky things about working with data is that sometimes the terminology
used by a data source is not obvious. You may need to dig around and be creative
to find what you’re looking for.
8. Go back to the results for food composition and click on Food Data Central. Review
the catalog page for this data source, then click on the button for Visit Page. Take
some time to explore the Food Data Central website.
-Food Data Central provides food information in nutrition for thousands of foods , It has data bases that include branded foods, standard preference and purpose.

